#summary Getting started with the omicron SDK
#sidebar Sidebar

<p>*Last revision:* ver. 1.2<font color=#ff0000> (This documentation is preliminary and may be incomplete)</font></p>*

= Introduction =
The omicron SDK is a library providing access to a variety of input devices, mostly used in immersive installations and stereo display systems. 

Some of the devices currently supported by omicron are:
 * All motion capture systems supporting the VRPN protocol
 * NaturalPoint trackers (TrackIR, Optitrack)
 * Wii controllers
 * Xbox 360 controllers
 * Microsoft Kinect
 * SAGE pointer connections
 * PQLabs multitouch overlays
 * iPad touch interfaces and dynamic GUIs through the custom Porthole protocol
 * Thinkgear brainwave interfaces

omicron abstracts input using modular event services, each providing access to a specific input device. Events can be easily streamed over the network using the omicron connector API. Also, Event services can be chained together to provide advanced functionality.

In addition to event services, omicron provides additional utility APIs to simplify the developement of the non-graphics part of VR applications. These APIs are mostly lightweight wrappers on top of well established open source libraries. omicron includes:
 * a configuration file reading system (libconfig)
 * an xml reading/writing API (tinyxml-2 http://www.grinninglizard.com/tinyxml2/index.html)
 * multithreading support (tinythread++ http://tinythread.sourceforge.net/)
 * a simple tcp client/server API (asio http://think-async.com/)
 * a mathematical/geometry library (eigen http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page)

= Resources =
[http://omicron-sdk.googlecode.com/svn/refdocs/v1.0/index.html The omicron SDK reference guide (v1.0)]
 
= Building omicron =
omicron uses CMake to generate platform-specific build files for the supported platforms. If you are not familiar with CMake go to (*link here*).
When run for the first time, CMake will set some default options for your build, enabling or disabling features depending on operating system support. Some options may be completely unavailable if unsupported by your environment.
== omicron CMake options ==
 * `OMICRON_BUILD_TUTORIALS` When enabled, tutorials shipped with omicron will be built.
 * `OMICRON_USE_DIRECTINPUT` Enables DirectInput-based controller support. Works with Wiimote and XBox360 controllers.
 * `OMICRON_USE_LEGACY_NETSERVICE` Enables building of legacy network service support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_NETSERVICE` Enables building of network service support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_OPENNI` Enables building of Microsoft Kinect support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_OPTITRACK` Enables building of Optitrack support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_PQLABS` Enables building of PQLabs multitouch support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_THINKGEAR` Enables building of Thinkgear support.
 * `OMICRON_USE_VRPN` Enables building of VRPN support.

